Distributed tracing 2.9 (#62410)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-otel-migrating-from-jaeger-without-sidecars.adoc

//
// * distr-tracing-otel-migrating.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-otel-migrating-from-jaeger-without-sidecars_{context}"]
= Migrating from the {JaegerShortName} to the {OTELShortName} without sidecars

You can migrate from the {JaegerShortName} to the {OTELShortName} without sidecar deployment.

.Prerequisites

* The {JaegerName} is used on the cluster.
* The {OTELName} is installed.

.Procedure

. Configure OpenTelemetry Collector deployment.

. Create the project where the OpenTelemetry Collector will be deployed.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: project.openshift.io/v1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: observability
----

. Create a service account for running the OpenTelemetry Collector instance.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: otel-collector-deployment
  namespace: observability
----

. Create a cluster role for setting the required permissions for the processors.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: otel-collector
rules:
# Permissions for pods and namespaces resources are needed for the k8sattributesprocessor

> # Permissions for infrastructures and infrastructures/status are needed for resourcedetectionprocessor

Reviewer: Suggest making this YAML the same format as the others (with callouts)

Author: Thank you. I moved these comments into callouts.

- apiGroups: ["", "config.openshift.io"]
  resources: ["pods", "namespaces", "infrastructures", "infrastructures/status"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
----

> . Create a `ClusterRoleBinding` to set the permissions for the service account.

Reviewer: Specify the object type for `ClusterRoleBinding`

Author: Thnk you. I removed the backticks.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otel-collector
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: otel-collector-deployment
  namespace: observability
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: otel-collector
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
----

. Create the OpenTelemetry Collector instance.
+

> NOTE: This collector will be exporting traces to a TempoStack instance. You must create your TempoStack instance using the Red Hat Tempo Operator and place here the correct endpoint.

Reviewer: Probably can't avoid future tense here, but could use a simpler construction
```suggestion
NOTE: This collector will export traces to a TempoStack instance. You must create your TempoStack instance using the Red Hat Tempo Operator and place here the correct endpoint.
```

Author: AFAIK, `will be exporting` refers to a recurring activity rather than a single event.

Author: Thank you. Applied manually.
